Preparing the attachment for deployment:
The process of assembling this attachment would involve printing the base on to a section of elastane fabric and printing the electronics case directly. Once printed, the elastane fabric needs to be trimmed to the base dimensions, and then the base is loosely laced, such that the attachment still lies flat. Lacing should begin at opposite ends and sides of the attachment, and finish at the fourth hole (middle hole) on each side. The solenoid should be positioned in the centre of the solenoid cut-out in the base print. Care should be taken to position the solenoid accurately, as the solenoid has 2mm tolerance to the edge of the solenoid cut-out, but only 0.5mm tolerance to the case once inserted. If the solenoid is poorly placed, the electronics case will not fit to the base. The ends of the lacing should then be thread along the middle grooves and through the internal cut-outs of the base, with an Angler’s Loop knot or similar tied into the end of the lacing material. These loops should then be carefully slipped over the end of the solenoid pin; using a small instrument like a needle may help. The tracking case and electronics of the device are then inserted and positioned carefully into the electronics case; an adhesive can be used within the device to reduce movement of these instruments. However, the case is designed to cradle the device as the sides of the cylinder extend to 145 degrees, which curve around the device to provide support and reduce the likelihood of the device falling out. An adhesive should be conservatively applied in the L-shaped cut-outs of the base and then the electronics case carefully slid in over the top of the solenoid. More adhesive should then be applied on the outside of this joint to improve weatherability. 

Deploying the device:
In the field, once an animal is caught and bagged (a process where the animal’s upper body is placed inside a hessian bag to calm them [3, 20]), the handler can position the tail to lie along their lap. The loosely laced attachment is slipped over the end of the tail and positioned at the rump. The lacing is then tightened such that the device is flush to the tail yet not constricting, and knots tied in the end to secure to the tail, after which the animal may be released.
